@table @option
@item help or ? [@var{cmd}]
@findex help
Show the help for all commands or just for command @var{cmd}.
@item commit
@findex commit
Commit changes to the disk images (if -snapshot is used) or backing files.
If the backing file is smaller than the snapshot, then the backing file will be
resized to be the same size as the snapshot.  If the snapshot is smaller than
the backing file, the backing file will not be truncated.  If you want the
backing file to match the size of the smaller snapshot, you can safely truncate
it yourself once the commit operation successfully completes.
@item q or quit
@findex quit
Quit the emulator.
@item block_resize
@findex block_resize
Resize a block image while a guest is running.  Usually requires guest
action to see the updated size.  Resize to a lower size is supported,
but should be used with extreme caution.  Note that this command only
resizes image files, it can not resize block devices like LVM volumes.
@item block_stream
@findex block_stream
Copy data from a backing file into a block device.
@item block_job_set_speed
@findex block_job_set_speed
Set maximum speed for a background block operation.
@item block_job_cancel
@findex block_job_cancel
Stop an active background block operation (streaming, mirroring).
@item block_job_complete
@findex block_job_complete
Manually trigger completion of an active background block operation.
For mirroring, this will switch the device to the destination path.
@item block_job_pause
@findex block_job_pause
Pause an active block streaming operation.
@item block_job_resume
@findex block_job_resume
Resume a paused block streaming operation.
@item eject [-f] @var{device}
@findex eject
Eject a removable medium (use -f to force it).
@item drive_del @var{device}
@findex drive_del
Remove host block device.  The result is that guest generated IO is no longer
submitted against the host device underlying the disk.  Once a drive has
been deleted, the QEMU Block layer returns -EIO which results in IO
errors in the guest for applications that are reading/writing to the device.
These errors are always reported to the guest, regardless of the drive's error
actions (drive options rerror, werror).
@item change @var{device} @var{setting}
@findex change
Change the configuration of a device.

@table @option
@item change @var{diskdevice} @var{filename} [@var{format} [@var{read-only-mode}]]
Change the medium for a removable disk device to point to @var{filename}. eg

@example
(qemu) change ide1-cd0 /path/to/some.iso
@end example

@var{format} is optional.

@var{read-only-mode} may be used to change the read-only status of the device.
It accepts the following values:

@table @var
@item retain
Retains the current status; this is the default.

@item read-only
Makes the device read-only.

@item read-write
Makes the device writable.
@end table

@item change vnc @var{display},@var{options}
Change the configuration of the VNC server. The valid syntax for @var{display}
and @var{options} are described at @ref{sec_invocation}. eg

@example
(qemu) change vnc localhost:1
@end example

@item change vnc password [@var{password}]

Change the password associated with the VNC server. If the new password is not
supplied, the monitor will prompt for it to be entered. VNC passwords are only
significant up to 8 letters. eg

@example
(qemu) change vnc password
Password: ********
@end example

@end table
@item screendump @var{filename}
@findex screendump
Save screen into PPM image @var{filename}.
@item logfile @var{filename}
@findex logfile
Output logs to @var{filename}.
@item trace-event
@findex trace-event
changes status of a trace event
@item trace-file on|off|flush
@findex trace-file
Open, close, or flush the trace file.  If no argument is given, the status of the trace file is displayed.
@item log @var{item1}[,...]
@findex log
Activate logging of the specified items.
@item savevm [@var{tag}|@var{id}]
@findex savevm
Create a snapshot of the whole virtual machine. If @var{tag} is
provided, it is used as human readable identifier. If there is already
a snapshot with the same tag or ID, it is replaced. More info at
@ref{vm_snapshots}.
@item loadvm @var{tag}|@var{id}
@findex loadvm
Set the whole virtual machine to the snapshot identified by the tag
@var{tag} or the unique snapshot ID @var{id}.
@item delvm @var{tag}|@var{id}
@findex delvm
Delete the snapshot identified by @var{tag} or @var{id}.
@item singlestep [off]
@findex singlestep
Run the emulation in single step mode.
If called with option off, the emulation returns to normal mode.
@item stop
@findex stop
Stop emulation.
@item c or cont
@findex cont
Resume emulation.
@item system_wakeup
@findex system_wakeup
Wakeup guest from suspend.
@item gdbserver [@var{port}]
@findex gdbserver
Start gdbserver session (default @var{port}=1234)
@item x/fmt @var{addr}
@findex x
Virtual memory dump starting at @var{addr}.
@item xp /@var{fmt} @var{addr}
@findex xp
Physical memory dump starting at @var{addr}.

@var{fmt} is a format which tells the command how to format the
data. Its syntax is: @option{/@{count@}@{format@}@{size@}}

@table @var
@item count
is the number of items to be dumped.

@item format
can be x (hex), d (signed decimal), u (unsigned decimal), o (octal),
c (char) or i (asm instruction).

@item size
can be b (8 bits), h (16 bits), w (32 bits) or g (64 bits). On x86,
@code{h} or @code{w} can be specified with the @code{i} format to
respectively select 16 or 32 bit code instruction size.

@end table

Examples:
@itemize
@item
Dump 10 instructions at the current instruction pointer:
@example
(qemu) x/10i $eip
0x90107063:  ret
0x90107064:  sti
0x90107065:  lea    0x0(%esi,1),%esi
0x90107069:  lea    0x0(%edi,1),%edi
0x90107070:  ret
0x90107071:  jmp    0x90107080
0x90107073:  nop
0x90107074:  nop
0x90107075:  nop
0x90107076:  nop
@end example

@item
Dump 80 16 bit values at the start of the video memory.
@smallexample
(qemu) xp/80hx 0xb8000
0x000b8000: 0x0b50 0x0b6c 0x0b65 0x0b78 0x0b38 0x0b36 0x0b2f 0x0b42
0x000b8010: 0x0b6f 0x0b63 0x0b68 0x0b73 0x0b20 0x0b56 0x0b47 0x0b41
0x000b8020: 0x0b42 0x0b69 0x0b6f 0x0b73 0x0b20 0x0b63 0x0b75 0x0b72
0x000b8030: 0x0b72 0x0b65 0x0b6e 0x0b74 0x0b2d 0x0b63 0x0b76 0x0b73
0x000b8040: 0x0b20 0x0b30 0x0b35 0x0b20 0x0b4e 0x0b6f 0x0b76 0x0b20
0x000b8050: 0x0b32 0x0b30 0x0b30 0x0b33 0x0720 0x0720 0x0720 0x0720
0x000b8060: 0x0720 0x0720 0x0720 0x0720 0x0720 0x0720 0x0720 0x0720
0x000b8070: 0x0720 0x0720 0x0720 0x0720 0x0720 0x0720 0x0720 0x0720
0x000b8080: 0x0720 0x0720 0x0720 0x0720 0x0720 0x0720 0x0720 0x0720
0x000b8090: 0x0720 0x0720 0x0720 0x0720 0x0720 0x0720 0x0720 0x0720
@end smallexample
@end itemize
@item gpa2hva @var{addr}
@findex gpa2hva
Print the host virtual address at which the guest's physical address @var{addr}
is mapped.
@item gpa2hpa @var{addr}
@findex gpa2hpa
Print the host physical address at which the guest's physical address @var{addr}
is mapped.
@item p or print/@var{fmt} @var{expr}
@findex print
Print expression value. Only the @var{format} part of @var{fmt} is
used.
@item i/@var{fmt} @var{addr} [.@var{index}]
@findex i
Read I/O port.
@item o/@var{fmt} @var{addr} @var{val}
@findex o
Write to I/O port.
@item sendkey @var{keys}
@findex sendkey
Send @var{keys} to the guest. @var{keys} could be the name of the
key or the raw value in hexadecimal format. Use @code{-} to press
several keys simultaneously. Example:
@example
sendkey ctrl-alt-f1
@end example

This command is useful to send keys that your graphical user interface
intercepts at low level, such as @code{ctrl-alt-f1} in X Window.
@item system_reset
@findex system_reset
Reset the system.
@item system_powerdown
@findex system_powerdown
Power down the system (if supported).
@item sum @var{addr} @var{size}
@findex sum
Compute the checksum of a memory region.
@item usb_add @var{devname}
@findex usb_add
Add the USB device @var{devname}. This command is deprecated, please
use @code{device_add} instead. For details of available devices see
@ref{usb_devices}
@item usb_del @var{devname}
@findex usb_del
Remove the USB device @var{devname} from the QEMU virtual USB
hub. @var{devname} has the syntax @code{bus.addr}. Use the monitor
command @code{info usb} to see the devices you can remove. This
command is deprecated, please use @code{device_del} instead.
@item device_add @var{config}
@findex device_add
Add device.
@item device_del @var{id}
@findex device_del
Remove device @var{id}. @var{id} may be a short ID
or a QOM object path.
@item cpu @var{index}
@findex cpu
Set the default CPU.
@item mouse_move @var{dx} @var{dy} [@var{dz}]
@findex mouse_move
Move the active mouse to the specified coordinates @var{dx} @var{dy}
with optional scroll axis @var{dz}.
@item mouse_button @var{val}
@findex mouse_button
Change the active mouse button state @var{val} (1=L, 2=M, 4=R).
@item mouse_set @var{index}
@findex mouse_set
Set which mouse device receives events at given @var{index}, index
can be obtained with
@example
info mice
@end example
@item wavcapture @var{filename} [@var{frequency} [@var{bits} [@var{channels}]]]
@findex wavcapture
Capture audio into @var{filename}. Using sample rate @var{frequency}
bits per sample @var{bits} and number of channels @var{channels}.

Defaults:
@itemize @minus
@item Sample rate = 44100 Hz - CD quality
@item Bits = 16
@item Number of channels = 2 - Stereo
@end itemize
@item stopcapture @var{index}
@findex stopcapture
Stop capture with a given @var{index}, index can be obtained with
@example
info capture
@end example
@item memsave @var{addr} @var{size} @var{file}
@findex memsave
save to disk virtual memory dump starting at @var{addr} of size @var{size}.
@item pmemsave @var{addr} @var{size} @var{file}
@findex pmemsave
save to disk physical memory dump starting at @var{addr} of size @var{size}.
@item boot_set @var{bootdevicelist}
@findex boot_set
Define new values for the boot device list. Those values will override
the values specified on the command line through the @code{-boot} option.

The values that can be specified here depend on the machine type, but are
the same that can be specified in the @code{-boot} command line option.
@item nmi @var{cpu}
@findex nmi
Inject an NMI on the default CPU (x86/s390) or all CPUs (ppc64).

@item ringbuf_write @var{device} @var{data}
@findex ringbuf_write
Write @var{data} to ring buffer character device @var{device}.
@var{data} must be a UTF-8 string.

@item ringbuf_read @var{device}
@findex ringbuf_read
Read and print up to @var{size} bytes from ring buffer character
device @var{device}.
Certain non-printable characters are printed \uXXXX, where XXXX is the
character code in hexadecimal.  Character \ is printed \\.
Bug: can screw up when the buffer contains invalid UTF-8 sequences,
NUL characters, after the ring buffer lost data, and when reading
stops because the size limit is reached.

@item migrate [-d] [-b] [-i] @var{uri}
@findex migrate
Migrate to @var{uri} (using -d to not wait for completion).
-b for migration with full copy of disk
-i for migration with incremental copy of disk (base image is shared)
@item migrate_cancel
@findex migrate_cancel
Cancel the current VM migration.

@item migrate_incoming @var{uri}
@findex migrate_incoming
Continue an incoming migration using the @var{uri} (that has the same syntax
as the -incoming option).

@item migrate_set_cache_size @var{value}
@findex migrate_set_cache_size
Set cache size to @var{value} (in bytes) for xbzrle migrations.
@item migrate_set_speed @var{value}
@findex migrate_set_speed
Set maximum speed to @var{value} (in bytes) for migrations.
@item migrate_set_downtime @var{second}
@findex migrate_set_downtime
Set maximum tolerated downtime (in seconds) for migration.
@item migrate_set_capability @var{capability} @var{state}
@findex migrate_set_capability
Enable/Disable the usage of a capability @var{capability} for migration.
@item migrate_set_parameter @var{parameter} @var{value}
@findex migrate_set_parameter
Set the parameter @var{parameter} for migration.
@item migrate_start_postcopy
@findex migrate_start_postcopy
Switch in-progress migration to postcopy mode. Ignored after the end of
migration (or once already in postcopy).
@item x_colo_lost_heartbeat
@findex x_colo_lost_heartbeat
Tell COLO that heartbeat is lost, a failover or takeover is needed.
@item client_migrate_info @var{protocol} @var{hostname} @var{port} @var{tls-port} @var{cert-subject}
@findex client_migrate_info
Set migration information for remote display.  This makes the server
ask the client to automatically reconnect using the new parameters
once migration finished successfully.  Only implemented for SPICE.
@item dump-guest-memory [-p] @var{filename} @var{begin} @var{length}
@item dump-guest-memory [-z|-l|-s] @var{filename}
@findex dump-guest-memory
Dump guest memory to @var{protocol}. The file can be processed with crash or
gdb. Without -z|-l|-s, the dump format is ELF.
-p: do paging to get guest's memory mapping.
-z: dump in kdump-compressed format, with zlib compression.
-l: dump in kdump-compressed format, with lzo compression.
-s: dump in kdump-compressed format, with snappy compression.
filename: dump file name.
begin: the starting physical address. It's optional, and should be
specified together with length.
length: the memory size, in bytes. It's optional, and should be specified
together with begin.
@item dump-skeys @var{filename}
@findex dump-skeys
Save guest storage keys to a file.
@item migration_mode @var{mode}
@findex migration_mode
Enables or disables migration mode.
@item snapshot_blkdev
@findex snapshot_blkdev
Snapshot device, using snapshot file as target if provided
@item snapshot_blkdev_internal
@findex snapshot_blkdev_internal
Take an internal snapshot on device if it support
@item snapshot_delete_blkdev_internal
@findex snapshot_delete_blkdev_internal
Delete an internal snapshot on device if it support
@item drive_mirror
@findex drive_mirror
Start mirroring a block device's writes to a new destination,
using the specified target.
@item drive_backup
@findex drive_backup
Start a point-in-time copy of a block device to a specificed target.
@item drive_add
@findex drive_add
Add drive to PCI storage controller.
@item pcie_aer_inject_error
@findex pcie_aer_inject_error
Inject PCIe AER error
@item host_net_add
@findex host_net_add
Add host VLAN client. Deprecated, please use @code{netdev_add} instead.
@item host_net_remove
@findex host_net_remove
Remove host VLAN client. Deprecated, please use @code{netdev_del} instead.
@item netdev_add
@findex netdev_add
Add host network device.
@item netdev_del
@findex netdev_del
Remove host network device.
@item object_add
@findex object_add
Create QOM object.
@item object_del
@findex object_del
Destroy QOM object.
@item hostfwd_add
@findex hostfwd_add
Redirect TCP or UDP connections from host to guest (requires -net user).
@item hostfwd_remove
@findex hostfwd_remove
Remove host-to-guest TCP or UDP redirection.
@item balloon @var{value}
@findex balloon
Request VM to change its memory allocation to @var{value} (in MB).
@item set_link @var{name} [on|off]
@findex set_link
Switch link @var{name} on (i.e. up) or off (i.e. down).
@item watchdog_action
@findex watchdog_action
Change watchdog action.
@item acl_show @var{aclname}
@findex acl_show
List all the matching rules in the access control list, and the default
policy. There are currently two named access control lists,
@var{vnc.x509dname} and @var{vnc.username} matching on the x509 client
certificate distinguished name, and SASL username respectively.
@item acl_policy @var{aclname} @code{allow|deny}
@findex acl_policy
Set the default access control list policy, used in the event that
none of the explicit rules match. The default policy at startup is
always @code{deny}.
@item acl_add @var{aclname} @var{match} @code{allow|deny} [@var{index}]
@findex acl_add
Add a match rule to the access control list, allowing or denying access.
The match will normally be an exact username or x509 distinguished name,
but can optionally include wildcard globs. eg @code{*@@EXAMPLE.COM} to
allow all users in the @code{EXAMPLE.COM} kerberos realm. The match will
normally be appended to the end of the ACL, but can be inserted
earlier in the list if the optional @var{index} parameter is supplied.
@item acl_remove @var{aclname} @var{match}
@findex acl_remove
Remove the specified match rule from the access control list.
@item acl_reset @var{aclname}
@findex acl_reset
Remove all matches from the access control list, and set the default
policy back to @code{deny}.
@item nbd_server_start @var{host}:@var{port}
@findex nbd_server_start
Start an NBD server on the given host and/or port.  If the @option{-a}
option is included, all of the virtual machine's block devices that
have an inserted media on them are automatically exported; in this case,
the @option{-w} option makes the devices writable too.
@item nbd_server_add @var{device}
@findex nbd_server_add
Export a block device through QEMU's NBD server, which must be started
beforehand with @command{nbd_server_start}.  The @option{-w} option makes the
exported device writable too.
@item nbd_server_stop
@findex nbd_server_stop
Stop the QEMU embedded NBD server.
@item mce @var{cpu} @var{bank} @var{status} @var{mcgstatus} @var{addr} @var{misc}
@findex mce (x86)
Inject an MCE on the given CPU (x86 only).
@item getfd @var{fdname}
@findex getfd
If a file descriptor is passed alongside this command using the SCM_RIGHTS
mechanism on unix sockets, it is stored using the name @var{fdname} for
later use by other monitor commands.
@item closefd @var{fdname}
@findex closefd
Close the file descriptor previously assigned to @var{fdname} using the
@code{getfd} command. This is only needed if the file descriptor was never
used by another monitor command.
@item block_passwd @var{device} @var{password}
@findex block_passwd
Set the encrypted device @var{device} password to @var{password}

This command is now obsolete and will always return an error since 2.10
@item block_set_io_throttle @var{device} @var{bps} @var{bps_rd} @var{bps_wr} @var{iops} @var{iops_rd} @var{iops_wr}
@findex block_set_io_throttle
Change I/O throttle limits for a block drive to @var{bps} @var{bps_rd} @var{bps_wr} @var{iops} @var{iops_rd} @var{iops_wr}
@item set_password [ vnc | spice ] password [ action-if-connected ]
@findex set_password
Change spice/vnc password.  Use zero to make the password stay valid
forever.  @var{action-if-connected} specifies what should happen in
case a connection is established: @var{fail} makes the password change
fail.  @var{disconnect} changes the password and disconnects the
client.  @var{keep} changes the password and keeps the connection up.
@var{keep} is the default.
@item expire_password [ vnc | spice ] expire-time
@findex expire_password
Specify when a password for spice/vnc becomes
invalid. @var{expire-time} accepts:

@table @var
@item now
Invalidate password instantly.

@item never
Password stays valid forever.

@item +nsec
Password stays valid for @var{nsec} seconds starting now.

@item nsec
Password is invalidated at the given time.  @var{nsec} are the seconds
passed since 1970, i.e. unix epoch.

@end table
@item chardev-add args
@findex chardev-add
chardev-add accepts the same parameters as the -chardev command line switch.

@item chardev-change args
@findex chardev-change
chardev-change accepts existing chardev @var{id} and then the same arguments
as the -chardev command line switch (except for "id").

@item chardev-remove id
@findex chardev-remove
Removes the chardev @var{id}.

@item chardev-send-break id
@findex chardev-send-break
Send a break on the chardev @var{id}.

@item qemu-io @var{device} @var{command}
@findex qemu-io
Executes a qemu-io command on the given block device.

@item cpu-add @var{id}
@findex cpu-add
Add CPU with id @var{id}
@item qom-list [@var{path}]
Print QOM properties of object at location @var{path}
@item qom-set @var{path} @var{property} @var{value}
Set QOM property @var{property} of object at location @var{path} to value @var{value}
@end table
