@table @option
@item info @var{subcommand}
@findex info
Show various information about the system state.
@table @option
@item info version
@findex version
Show the version of QEMU.
@item info network
@findex network
Show the network state.
@item info chardev
@findex chardev
Show the character devices.
@item info block
@findex block
Show info of one block device or all block devices.
@item info blockstats
@findex blockstats
Show block device statistics.
@item info block-jobs
@findex block-jobs
Show progress of ongoing block device operations.
@item info registers
@findex registers
Show the cpu registers.
@item info lapic
@findex lapic
Show local APIC state
@item info ioapic
@findex ioapic
Show io APIC state
@item info cpus
@findex cpus
Show infos for each CPU.
@item info history
@findex history
Show the command line history.
@item info irq
@findex irq
Show the interrupts statistics (if available).
@item info pic
@findex pic
Show i8259 (PIC) state.
@item info pci
@findex pci
Show PCI information.
@item info tlb
@findex tlb
Show virtual to physical memory mappings.
@item info mem
@findex mem
Show the active virtual memory mappings.
@item info mtree
@findex mtree
Show memory tree.
@item info jit
@findex jit
Show dynamic compiler info.
@item info opcount
@findex opcount
Show dynamic compiler opcode counters
@item info kvm
@findex kvm
Show KVM information.
@item info numa
@findex numa
Show NUMA information.
@item info usb
@findex usb
Show guest USB devices.
@item info usbhost
@findex usbhost
Show host USB devices.
@item info profile
@findex profile
Show profiling information.
@item info capture
@findex capture
Show capture information.
@item info snapshots
@findex snapshots
Show the currently saved VM snapshots.
@item info status
@findex status
Show the current VM status (running|paused).
@item info mice
@findex mice
Show which guest mouse is receiving events.
@item info vnc
@findex vnc
Show the vnc server status.
@item info spice
@findex spice
Show the spice server status.
@item info name
@findex name
Show the current VM name.
@item info uuid
@findex uuid
Show the current VM UUID.
@item info cpustats
@findex cpustats
Show CPU statistics.
@item info usernet
@findex usernet
Show user network stack connection states.
@item info migrate
@findex migrate
Show migration status.
@item info migrate_capabilities
@findex migrate_capabilities
Show current migration capabilities.
@item info migrate_parameters
@findex migrate_parameters
Show current migration parameters.
@item info migrate_cache_size
@findex migrate_cache_size
Show current migration xbzrle cache size.
@item info balloon
@findex balloon
Show balloon information.
@item info qtree
@findex qtree
Show device tree.
@item info qdm
@findex qdm
Show qdev device model list.
@item info qom-tree
@findex qom-tree
Show QOM composition tree.
@item info roms
@findex roms
Show roms.
@item info trace-events
@findex trace-events
Show available trace-events & their state.
@item info tpm
@findex tpm
Show the TPM device.
@item info memdev
@findex memdev
Show memory backends
@item info memory-devices
@findex memory-devices
Show memory devices.
@item info iothreads
@findex iothreads
Show iothread's identifiers.
@item info rocker @var{name}
@findex rocker
Show rocker switch.
@item info rocker_ports @var{name}-ports
@findex ocker-ports
Show rocker ports.
@item info rocker_of_dpa_flows @var{name} [@var{tbl_id}]
@findex rocker-of-dpa-flows
Show rocker OF-DPA flow tables.
@item info rocker-of-dpa-groups @var{name} [@var{type}]
@findex rocker-of-dpa-groups
Show rocker OF-DPA groups.
@item info skeys @var{address}
@findex skeys
Display the value of a storage key (s390 only)
@item info cmma @var{address}
@findex cmma
Display the values of the CMMA storage attributes for a range of pages (s390 only)
@item info dump
@findex dump
Display the latest dump status.
@item info ramblock
@findex ramblock
Dump all the ramblocks of the system.
@item info hotpluggable-cpus
@findex hotpluggable-cpus
Show information about hotpluggable CPUs
@item info vm-generation-id
@findex vm-generation-id
Show Virtual Machine Generation ID
@end table
@end table
